# AHC model (version 2.1R)

The Agro-Hydrological \& chemical and Crop systems simulator (AHC) is developed as an efficient tool for modeling and assessing agroecosystem processes. The AHC v2.1R, as a one-dimensional physical model, numerically simulates the vertical transport of soil water and vapor, solute (salinity and/or nitrogen), and heat in variably saturated soils. It also includes modules to simulate surface runoff, evapotranspiration, soil nitrogen-carbon turnover, and plant growth and yield formation. The model is designed to simulate agro-eco-hydrological processes at the field scale level and during the whole agricultural year. The software consists of the AHC mathematical computer program and a menu-driven program as a user-friendly interface for efficient data manipulation. The model's ability to simulate the transport of soil water, salinity, nitrogen, gas emission, and crop growth has been tested and demonstrated in various soil-crop environments. The key/unique features of the AHC include: the simultaneous solution of heat, water, and solute fluxes with various boundary conditions; the optional function for simulating the fate of salt, nitrogen, or salt-nitrogen, also including soil carbon and nitrogen turnover; provision of two different levels of complexity crop modules (moderate and detailed); detailed simulation of soil freezing and thawing processes for seasonally frozen areas; the efficient global method for sensitivity analysis and parameter estimation; and applicability in a wide range of field conditions. Information from the model could be used to analyze the complex agroecosystem processes and to support the rational management of irrigation application, salinity control, nitrogen fertilizer use, and crop production. This manual is primarily used to describe the main structures and compositions of the AHC, and modeling concepts and algorithms in simulating the soil water flow, solute transport and transformation, heat flow, soil nitrogen/carbon turnover, evapotranspiration, crop growth, surface water flow and field drainage, and field irrigation management.

